Here are the risk factors for type 2 diabetes. -  being over 45 years of age  -  being overweight or obese  - having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes  - being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  - having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure.  - having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher  - being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week.  - having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only)  - on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG)  - history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels). being over 45 years of age being overweight or obese having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure. having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week. having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only) on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels).