Your weight affects your health in many ways. Being overweight can keep your body from making and using insulin properly. It can also cause high blood pressure. If you are overweight or obese, choose sensible ways to reach and maintain a reasonable body weight. - Make healthy food choices. What you eat has a big impact on your weight and overall health. By developing healthy eating habits you can help control your body weight, blood pressure, and cholesterol. Reducing portion size, increasing the amount of fiber you consume (by eating more fruits and vegetables) and limiting fatty and salty foods are key to a healthy diet. Make healthy food choices. What you eat has a big impact on your weight and overall health. By developing healthy eating habits you can help control your body weight, blood pressure, and cholesterol. Reducing portion size, increasing the amount of fiber you consume (by eating more fruits and vegetables) and limiting fatty and salty foods are key to a healthy diet. -  Get at least 30 minutes of exercise at least five days a week. Regular exercise reduces diabetes risk in several ways: it helps you lose weight, controls your cholesterol and blood pressure, and improves your body's use of insulin. Many people make walking part of their daily routine because it's easy, fun and convenient. But you can choose any activity that gets you moving. It's fine to break up your 30 minutes of exercise into smaller increments, such as three 10-minute periods. Check with your doctor before beginning any exercise program.   Get at least 30 minutes of exercise at least five days a week. Regular exercise reduces diabetes risk in several ways: it helps you lose weight, controls your cholesterol and blood pressure, and improves your body's use of insulin. Many people make walking part of their daily routine because it's easy, fun and convenient. But you can choose any activity that gets you moving. It's fine to break up your 30 minutes of exercise into smaller increments, such as three 10-minute periods. Check with your doctor before beginning any exercise program.