You can take steps to help prevent high blood pressure by adopting these healthy lifestyle habits. - Follow a healthy eating plan like DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension), which emphasizes fruits, vegetables, fat-free and low-fat milk and milk products, and whole grains, fish, poultry, beans, seeds, and nuts, and choose and prepare foods with less sodium (salt). See how the  DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) can help with blood pressure control. Follow a healthy eating plan like DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension), which emphasizes fruits, vegetables, fat-free and low-fat milk and milk products, and whole grains, fish, poultry, beans, seeds, and nuts, and choose and prepare foods with less sodium (salt). See how the  DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) can help with blood pressure control.  - Be physically active for at least 2 and one-half hours a week. Check out  Exercises to Try for older adults, or visit  Go4Life, the exercise and physical activity campaign from the National Institute on Aging. (Watch the video to learn how exercise helps maintain healthy aging. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  Be physically active for at least 2 and one-half hours a week. Check out  Exercises to Try for older adults, or visit  Go4Life, the exercise and physical activity campaign from the National Institute on Aging. (Watch the video to learn how exercise helps maintain healthy aging. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) - Maintain a healthy weight and lose weight if you are overweight or obese. Body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference are measures used to determine if someone is overweight or obese.  See the BMI calculator to determine your body mass index.  Maintain a healthy weight and lose weight if you are overweight or obese. Body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference are measures used to determine if someone is overweight or obese.  See the BMI calculator to determine your body mass index. - If you drink alcoholic beverages, do so in moderation: no more than one drink a day for women, no more than two drinks a day for men.  If you drink alcoholic beverages, do so in moderation: no more than one drink a day for women, no more than two drinks a day for men. - Quit smoking, or don't start smoking. To get help quitting, call 1 (800) QUIT-NOW or check out  Quitting Smoking for Older Adults. Quit smoking, or don't start smoking. To get help quitting, call 1 (800) QUIT-NOW or check out  Quitting Smoking for Older Adults. - Learn to manage stress. Learn about relaxation techniques that may relieve tension.   Learn to manage stress. Learn about relaxation techniques that may relieve tension.