If you are diagnosed with high blood pressure, here are questions to ask your doctor. -   Your Blood Pressure Numbers       - What is my blood pressure reading in numbers?    - What is my goal blood pressure?    - Is my blood pressure under adequate control?    - Is my systolic pressure too high (over 140)?      Your Blood Pressure Numbers     - What is my blood pressure reading in numbers?   - What is my goal blood pressure?   - Is my blood pressure under adequate control?   - Is my systolic pressure too high (over 140)?   - What is my blood pressure reading in numbers?  - What is my goal blood pressure?  - Is my blood pressure under adequate control?  - Is my systolic pressure too high (over 140)? What is my blood pressure reading in numbers? What is my goal blood pressure? Is my blood pressure under adequate control? Is my systolic pressure too high (over 140)? -   Healthy Lifestyle Habits       - What would be a healthy weight for me?    - Is there a diet to help me lose weight (if I need to) and lower my blood pressure?    - Is there a recommended healthy eating plan I should follow to help lower my blood pressure (if I dont need to lose weight)?    - Is it safe for me to start doing regular physical activity?      Healthy Lifestyle Habits     - What would be a healthy weight for me?   - Is there a diet to help me lose weight (if I need to) and lower my blood pressure?   - Is there a recommended healthy eating plan I should follow to help lower my blood pressure (if I dont need to lose weight)?   - Is it safe for me to start doing regular physical activity?   - What would be a healthy weight for me?  - Is there a diet to help me lose weight (if I need to) and lower my blood pressure?  - Is there a recommended healthy eating plan I should follow to help lower my blood pressure (if I dont need to lose weight)?  - Is it safe for me to start doing regular physical activity? What would be a healthy weight for me? Is there a diet to help me lose weight (if I need to) and lower my blood pressure? Is there a recommended healthy eating plan I should follow to help lower my blood pressure (if I dont need to lose weight)? Is it safe for me to start doing regular physical activity? -   Medications       - What is the name of my blood pressure medication?     - Is that the brand name or the generic name?    - What are the possible side effects of my medication? (Be sure the doctor knows about any allergies you have and any other medications you are taking, including over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, and dietary supplements.)    - What time of day should I take my blood pressure medicine?    - Are there any foods, beverages, or dietary supplements I should avoid when taking this medicine?    - What should I do if I forget to take my blood pressure medicine at the recommended time? Should I take it as soon as I remember or should I wait until the next dosage is due?      Medications     - What is the name of my blood pressure medication?    - Is that the brand name or the generic name?   - What are the possible side effects of my medication? (Be sure the doctor knows about any allergies you have and any other medications you are taking, including over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, and dietary supplements.)   - What time of day should I take my blood pressure medicine?   - Are there any foods, beverages, or dietary supplements I should avoid when taking this medicine?   - What should I do if I forget to take my blood pressure medicine at the recommended time? Should I take it as soon as I remember or should I wait until the next dosage is due?   - What is the name of my blood pressure medication?   - Is that the brand name or the generic name?  - What are the possible side effects of my medication? (Be sure the doctor knows about any allergies you have and any other medications you are taking, including over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, and dietary supplements.)  - What time of day should I take my blood pressure medicine?  - Are there any foods, beverages, or dietary supplements I should avoid when taking this medicine?  - What should I do if I forget to take my blood pressure medicine at the recommended time? Should I take it as soon as I remember or should I wait until the next dosage is due? What is the name of my blood pressure medication? Is that the brand name or the generic name? What are the possible side effects of my medication? (Be sure the doctor knows about any allergies you have and any other medications you are taking, including over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, and dietary supplements.) What time of day should I take my blood pressure medicine? Are there any foods, beverages, or dietary supplements I should avoid when taking this medicine? What should I do if I forget to take my blood pressure medicine at the recommended time? Should I take it as soon as I remember or should I wait until the next dosage is due?