Rest. People with rheumatoid arthritis need a good balance between rest and exercise; they should rest more when the disease is active and exercise more when it is not. Rest helps to reduce active joint inflammation and pain and to fight fatigue. The length of time for rest will vary from person to person, but in general, shorter rest breaks every now and then are more helpful than long times spent in bed. Exercise. Exercise is important for maintaining healthy and strong muscles, preserving joint mobility, and maintaining flexibility. Exercise can help people sleep well, reduce pain, maintain a positive attitude, and manage weight. Exercise programs should take into account the persons physical abilities, limitations, and changing needs. For more information on exercise classes, you may want to contact the Arthritis Foundation at 1-800-283-7800. Learn more about the health benefits of exercise for older adults.  More information about exercise and physical activity for older adults can be found at Go4Life, the exercise and and physical activity campaign from the National Institute on Aging. Diet. Special diets, vitamin supplements, and other alternative approaches have been suggested for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Although such approaches may not be harmful, scientific studies have not yet shown any benefits. An overall nutritious diet with the right amount of calories, protein, and calcium is important. Some people need to be careful about drinking alcoholic beverages because of the medications they take for rheumatoid arthritis. See Eating Well as You Get Older  to learn more about healthy eating.  Joint Care. Some people find that using a splint for a short time around a painful joint reduces pain and swelling by supporting the joint and letting it rest. Assistive devices may help reduce stress and lessen pain in the joints. Examples include zipper pullers and aids to help with moving in and out of chairs and beds.  Stress Reduction. Finding ways to reduce stress is important. Regular rest periods can help and so can relaxation, distraction, or visualization exercises. Exercise programs, participation in support groups, and good communication with the health care team are other ways to reduce stress.  Learn about relaxation techniques that may relieve tension.