Deep Brain Stimulation Deep brain stimulation, or DBS, is a surgical procedure used to treat a variety of disabling disorders. It is most commonly used to treat the debilitating symptoms of Parkinsons disease. Deep brain stimulation uses an electrode surgically implanted into part of the brain. The electrodes are connected by a wire under the skin to a small electrical device called a pulse generator that is implanted in the chest. The pulse generator and electrodes painlessly stimulate the brain in a way that helps to stop many of the symptoms of Parkinson's such as tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity. DBS is primarily used to stimulate one of three brain regions: the subthalamic nucleus, the globus pallidus, or the thalamus. Researchers are exploring optimal generator settings for DBS, whether DBS of other brain regions will also improve symptoms of Parkinsons disease, and also whether DBS may slow disease progression. Deep brain stimulation usually reduces the need for levodopa and related drugs, which in turn decreases dyskinesias and other side effects. It also helps to relieve on-off fluctuation of symptoms. People who respond well to treatment with levodopa tend to respond well to DBS. Unfortunately, older people who have only a partial response to levodopa may not improve with DBS. Complementary and Supportive Therapies A wide variety of complementary and supportive therapies may be used for Parkinson's disease. Among these therapies are standard physical, occupational, and speech therapies, which help with gait and voice disorders, tremors and rigidity, and decline in mental functions. Other supportive therapies include diet and exercise. Diet At this time there are no specific vitamins, minerals, or other nutrients that have any proven therapeutic value in Parkinson's disease. Some early reports have suggested that dietary supplements might protect against Parkinson's. Also, a preliminary clinical study of a supplement called coenzyme Q10 suggested that large doses of this substance might slow disease progression in people with early-stage Parkinson's. This supplement is now being tested in a large clinical trial. Other studies are being conducted to find out if caffeine, antioxidants, nicotine, and other dietary factors may help prevent or treat the disease. While there is currently no proof that any specific dietary factor is beneficial, a normal, healthy diet can promote overall well-being for people with Parkinson's disease, just as it would for anyone else. A high protein meal, however, may limit levodopa's effectiveness because for a time afterwards less levodopa passes through the blood-brain barrier. Exercise Exercise can help people with Parkinson's improve their mobility and flexibility. It can also improve their emotional well-being. Exercise may improve the brain's dopamine production or increase levels of beneficial compounds called neurotrophic factors in the brain. Other Therapies Other complementary therapies include massage therapy, yoga, tai chi, hypnosis, acupuncture, and the Alexander technique, which improves posture and muscle activity. There have been limited studies suggesting mild benefits from some of these therapies, but they do not slow Parkinson's disease and to date there is no convincing evidence that they help. However, this remains an active area of investigation.