Symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI) in the bladder may include - cloudy, bloody, or foul-smelling urine  - pain or burning during urination  - strong and frequent need to urinate, even right after emptying the bladder  - a mild fever below 101 degrees Fahrenheit in some people. cloudy, bloody, or foul-smelling urine pain or burning during urination strong and frequent need to urinate, even right after emptying the bladder a mild fever below 101 degrees Fahrenheit in some people. If the UTI spreads to the kidneys, symptoms may include - chills and shaking   - night sweats  - feeling tired or generally ill   - fever above 101 degrees Fahrenheit  - pain in the side, back, or groin  - flushed, warm, or reddened skin  - mental changes or confusion   - nausea and vomiting  - very bad abdominal pain in some people. chills and shaking night sweats feeling tired or generally ill fever above 101 degrees Fahrenheit pain in the side, back, or groin flushed, warm, or reddened skin mental changes or confusion nausea and vomiting very bad abdominal pain in some people. Symptoms May Vary Symptoms may differ depending on age, gender, and catheter use. In some elderly people, mental changes and confusion may be the only signs of a UTI. Older women and men with a UTI are more likely to be tired, shaky, and weak. They are also more likely to have muscle aches and abdominal pain. In a person with a catheter, the only symptom may be fever that does not have another likely cause. Germs without Symptoms Some people may have germs in the bladder or urinary tract, but not feel any symptoms. If a urine test shows that you have germs in your urine, but you do not feel any symptoms, you may not need any treatment. If you have germs in your urine but you feel okay, talk to your health care provider about whether antibiotics -- the medications that treat UTIs -- are needed. Diagnosis  To find out if a person has a UTI, the health care provider will ask about symptoms. He or she will then test a sample of urine. The urine test looks for bacteria that may cause the infection. The urine test also looks for white blood cells, which the body makes to fight infection. Because healthy people sometimes have bacteria in their urine, both bacteria and white blood cells must be in the urine to diagnose a UTI. If a person has UTIs often, the health care provider may order some extra tests to see if the persons urinary tract is normal. (Watch the video to learn more about what to expect when seeking help for a bladder problem. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)