Even after treatment, some people still leak urine from time to time. There are products that can help you cope with leaking urine. These products may make leaking urine bother you a little less. - Pads. You can wear disposable pads in your underwear to absorb urine when it leaks and keep your clothes from getting wet.  Pads. You can wear disposable pads in your underwear to absorb urine when it leaks and keep your clothes from getting wet. -  Adult diapers. If you leak large amounts of urine, you can wear an adult diaper to keep your clothes dry. You can choose disposable adult diapers, which you wear once and throw away. Or you can choose washable adult diapers, which you can reuse after washing.  Adult diapers. If you leak large amounts of urine, you can wear an adult diaper to keep your clothes dry. You can choose disposable adult diapers, which you wear once and throw away. Or you can choose washable adult diapers, which you can reuse after washing. - Protective underwear. Special kinds of underwear can help keep clothes from getting wet. Some kinds of underwear have a waterproof crotch with room for a pad or liner. Others use a waterproof fabric to keep your skin dry.  Protective underwear. Special kinds of underwear can help keep clothes from getting wet. Some kinds of underwear have a waterproof crotch with room for a pad or liner. Others use a waterproof fabric to keep your skin dry. - Furniture pads. Pads can be used to protect chairs and beds from leaking urine. Some pads should be used once and thrown away. Other cloth pads can be washed and reused.  Furniture pads. Pads can be used to protect chairs and beds from leaking urine. Some pads should be used once and thrown away. Other cloth pads can be washed and reused. -  Special skin cleaners and creams. Urine can bother the skin if it stays on the skin for a long time. Special skin cleaners and creams are available for people who leak urine. Skin cleaners and creams may help the skin around your urethra from becoming irritated. Creams can help keep urine away from your skin.  Special skin cleaners and creams. Urine can bother the skin if it stays on the skin for a long time. Special skin cleaners and creams are available for people who leak urine. Skin cleaners and creams may help the skin around your urethra from becoming irritated. Creams can help keep urine away from your skin. - Deodorizing pills. Deodorizing pills may make your urine smell less strongly. This way, if you do leak, it may be less noticeable. Ask your health care provider about deodorizing pills. Deodorizing pills. Deodorizing pills may make your urine smell less strongly. This way, if you do leak, it may be less noticeable. Ask your health care provider about deodorizing pills.