Changing some of these daily habits may help prevent UTIs. - Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement.  Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement.  - Drink lots of fluid, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.)  Drink lots of fluid, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.)  - Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long.  Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long. - Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex.  Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex. - Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry supplements also may help prevent UTIs. Some studies have shown that cranberry products make UTIs less likely, especially in people who get UTIs often. But in other studies, cranberry products did not help.