Medication or drug therapy is the most common treatment for stroke. The most popular kinds of drugs to prevent or treat stroke are antithrombotics -- which include antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants -- and thrombolytics. Antithrombotics prevent the formation of blood clots that can become stuck in an artery of the brain and cause strokes. - In the case of stroke, doctors prescribe antiplatelet drugs mainly for prevention. The most widely known and used antiplatelet drug is aspirin. Other antiplatelet drugs include clopidogrel, ticlopidine, and dipyridamole.  In the case of stroke, doctors prescribe antiplatelet drugs mainly for prevention. The most widely known and used antiplatelet drug is aspirin. Other antiplatelet drugs include clopidogrel, ticlopidine, and dipyridamole. - Anticoagulants reduce the risk of stroke by reducing the clotting property of the blood. The most commonly used oral anticoagulants include warfarin, also known as Coumadin, dabigatran (Pradaxa) and rivaroxaban (Xarelto). Injectable anticoagulants include heparin, enoxaparin (Lovenox), and dalteparin (Fragmin).  Anticoagulants reduce the risk of stroke by reducing the clotting property of the blood. The most commonly used oral anticoagulants include warfarin, also known as Coumadin, dabigatran (Pradaxa) and rivaroxaban (Xarelto). Injectable anticoagulants include heparin, enoxaparin (Lovenox), and dalteparin (Fragmin). Thrombolytic drugs halt the stroke by dissolving the blood clot that is blocking blood flow to the brain. Ischemic strokes -- the most common kind -- can be treated with thrombolytic drugs. But a person needs to be at the hospital as soon as possible after symptoms start to be evaluated and receive treatment. A thrombolytic drug known as t-PA can be effective if a person receives it intravenously (in a vein) within 3 hours after his or her stroke symptoms have started. Because there is such a narrow time window for giving t-PA, it is important to note the time any stroke symptoms appear. Since thrombolytic drugs can increase bleeding, t-PA should be used only after the doctor is certain that the patient has suffered an ischemic and not a hemorrhagic stroke. Neuroprotectants are medications or other treatments that protect the brain from secondary injury caused by stroke. Although the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) has not approved any neuroprotectants for use in stroke at this time, many have been tested or are being tested in clinical trials. Cooling of the brain (hypothermia) is beneficial for improving neurological function after a cardiac arrest.