While many psoriasis treatments are applied directly to the skin, your doctor may prescribe others that must be taken by mouth or injected. There are also some natural treatments, taken by mouth or applied to the skin, that you can try on your own. Systemic Therapies These therapies, prescribed by your doctor, work in different ways to help control the underlying disease process. It is important to learn as much as you can about these medications and to take them exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Oral or injected medications for psoriasis include the following. - is used to treat severe psoriasis (meaning more than 20 percent of skin is affected)  - slows the rapid growth of skin cells  - is taken by mouth or injected.  is used to treat severe psoriasis (meaning more than 20 percent of skin is affected) slows the rapid growth of skin cells is taken by mouth or injected. - may be used for severe psoriasis not controlled by methotrexate  - suppresses overactive T cells that play a role in psoriasis  - is taken by mouth or injected. may be used for severe psoriasis not controlled by methotrexate suppresses overactive T cells that play a role in psoriasis is taken by mouth or injected. - are man-made drugs related to vitamin A   - help slow the production of skin cells  - reduce inflammation. are man-made drugs related to vitamin A help slow the production of skin cells reduce inflammation. - are made from living cells grown in a laboratory  - block the action of specific cells and proteins that play a role in psoriasis  - must be injected beneath the skin or given intravenously (by IV). are made from living cells grown in a laboratory block the action of specific cells and proteins that play a role in psoriasis must be injected beneath the skin or given intravenously (by IV). Natural Treatments For many people, natural treatments can help relieve the symptoms of psoriasis. There are many natural treatments you can try on your own, but you should never use them to replace the treatment your doctor prescribes. Here are some natural treatments you may want to try. Spending a few minutes in the summer sun can help your psoriasis, but be sure to use sun block and increase time spent in the sun gradually. Applying cream from the aloe vera plant improves symptoms for some people. You should avoid aloe vera tablets. Taking fish oil orally helps some people with psoriasis. If you want to try fish oil, first speak with your doctor, as it may interact with other medications you are taking. Soaking in a solution of Dead Sea salts may improve scaling and itching. Be sure to apply moisturizer when you get out of the tub. Capsaicin, the ingredient that makes cayenne peppers hot, is the active ingredient in some topical pain-relievers. Some people find they relieve pain and itching.