Scientists who are working to better understand and treat psoriasis are making headway in several different areas. The Role of T Cells Scientists believe that psoriasis occurs when white blood cells called T cells, which normally help fight infections, attack the bodys skin cells by mistake. Scientists are working to understand what causes these cells to go awry in people with psoriasis. Their hope is that by better understanding why T cells attack the bodys healthy skin tissue, they can develop better treatments to stop or prevent that damaging process. New Treatments Since discovering that T cells attack skin cells in psoriasis, researchers have been studying new treatments that quiet immune system reactions in the skin. Among these are treatments that block the activity of T cells or block cytokines (proteins that promote inflammation). If researchers find a way to target only the disease-causing immune reactions while leaving the rest of the immune system alone, resulting treatments could benefit psoriasis patients as well as those with other autoimmune diseases (when the immune system attacks the bodys own tissues). Currently there are a number of potential psoriasis treatments in clinical trials, including injections, pills, and topical ointments. Clinical trials are research studies with volunteers in which drugs are tested for the effectiveness and safety. All drugs must complete and pass this process before they can be approved by the FDA. Psoriasis Genes Because psoriasis is more common among people who have one or more family members with the disease, scientists have long suspected that genes are involved. A number of genetic loci  specific locations on the genes  have been associated with the development of psoriasis or the severity or progression of the disease. In 2012, scientists discovered the first gene to be directly linked to development of plaque psoriasis. Researchers continue to study the genetic aspects of psoriasis, and some studies are looking at the nervous system to determine the genes responsible for the circuitry that causes itching. Psoriasis-related Conditions Research in recent years has shown that people with psoriasis are more likely to develop other health problems, including problems with the heart and blood vessels. Research is continuing to examine links between psoriasis and other health problems. Scientists are working to understand how and why these diseases occur in people with psoriasis, with the hope that this understanding will lead to better treatments for both psoriasis and the related diseases. Stress Reduction Treatment For many people with psoriasis, life stresses cause the disease to worsen or become more active. Research suggests that stress is associated with the increased production of chemicals by the immune system that promote inflammation. The same chemicals may play a role in the anxiety and depression that is common in people with psoriasis. Researchers are studying the use of stress reduction techniques, along with medical treatment, in the hope that reducing stress will both lower anxiety and improve the skin lesions of psoriasis. Where to Find More Information More information on research is available from the following websites. - NIH Clinical Research Trials and You helps people learn more about clinical trials, why they matter, and how to participate. Visitors to the website will find information about the basics of participating in a clinical trial, first-hand stories from actual clinical trial volunteers, explanations from researchers, and links to help you search for a trial or enroll in a research-matching program.  - ClinicalTrials.gov offers up-to-date information for locating federally and privately supported clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions.  - NIH RePORTER is an electronic tool that allows users to search a repository of both intramural and extramural NIH-funded research projects from the past 25 years and access publications (since 1985) and patents resulting from NIH funding.  - PubMed is a free service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine that lets you search millions of journal citations and abstracts in the fields of medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care system, and preclinical sciences.  NIH Clinical Research Trials and You helps people learn more about clinical trials, why they matter, and how to participate. Visitors to the website will find information about the basics of participating in a clinical trial, first-hand stories from actual clinical trial volunteers, explanations from researchers, and links to help you search for a trial or enroll in a research-matching program. ClinicalTrials.gov offers up-to-date information for locating federally and privately supported clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions. NIH RePORTER is an electronic tool that allows users to search a repository of both intramural and extramural NIH-funded research projects from the past 25 years and access publications (since 1985) and patents resulting from NIH funding. PubMed is a free service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine that lets you search millions of journal citations and abstracts in the fields of medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care system, and preclinical sciences.