There are several tests used to diagnose P.A.D. These include - an ankle-brachial index (ABI). This test compares blood pressure in your ankle to blood pressure in your arm. It shows how well blood is flowing in your limbs.  - a Doppler ultrasound. This test uses sound waves to show whether a blood vessel is blocked. A blood pressure cuff and special device measure blood flow in the veins and arteries of the limbs. A Doppler ultrasound can help find out how where P.A.D. is.   - a treadmill test. This test shows if you have any problems during normal walking, how severe your symptoms are, and what level of exercise brings them on.  - a magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA). This test uses magnetic and radio waves to take pictures of your blood vessels. An MRA can find the location of a blocked blood vessel and show how severe the blockage is.   - an arteriogram. This test is used to find the exact location of a blocked artery. Dye is injected through a needle or catheter (thin tube) into an artery, then an X-ray is taken. The pictures from the X-ray can show the location, type, and extent of the blockage in the artery.   - blood tests. These tests check for P.A.D. risk factors such as diabetes and high blood cholesterol levels.  an ankle-brachial index (ABI). This test compares blood pressure in your ankle to blood pressure in your arm. It shows how well blood is flowing in your limbs. a Doppler ultrasound. This test uses sound waves to show whether a blood vessel is blocked. A blood pressure cuff and special device measure blood flow in the veins and arteries of the limbs. A Doppler ultrasound can help find out how where P.A.D. is. a treadmill test. This test shows if you have any problems during normal walking, how severe your symptoms are, and what level of exercise brings them on. a magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA). This test uses magnetic and radio waves to take pictures of your blood vessels. An MRA can find the location of a blocked blood vessel and show how severe the blockage is. an arteriogram. This test is used to find the exact location of a blocked artery. Dye is injected through a needle or catheter (thin tube) into an artery, then an X-ray is taken. The pictures from the X-ray can show the location, type, and extent of the blockage in the artery. blood tests. These tests check for P.A.D. risk factors such as diabetes and high blood cholesterol levels.