Symptoms Can Vary Not all heart attacks begin with the sudden, crushing chest pain that often is shown on TV or in the movies. The warning signs and symptoms of a heart attack aren't the same for everyone. Many heart attacks start slowly as mild pain or discomfort. Some people don't have symptoms at all. Heart attacks that occur without any symptoms or very mild symptoms are called silent heart attacks. However, some people may have a pattern of symptoms that recur. The more signs and symptoms you have, the more likely it is that you're having a heart attack If you have a second heart attack, your symptoms may not be the same as the first heart attack. Here are common signs and symptoms of a heart attack. Chest Pain or Discomfort The most common symptom of heart attack is chest pain or discomfort. Chest pain or discomfort that doesn't go away or changes from its usual pattern (for example, occurs more often or while you're resting) can be a sign of a heart attack. Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the center of the chest that lasts for more than a few minutes or goes away and comes back. The discomfort can feel like uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness, or pain. It can be mild or severe. Heart attack pain can sometimes feel like indigestion or heartburn. All chest pain should be checked by a doctor. Other Upper Body Discomfort Discomfort can also occur in other areas of the upper body, including pain or numbness in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw or stomach. Shortness of Breath Shortness of breath often happens along with, or before chest discomfort. Other Symptoms Other symptoms may include - breaking out in a cold sweat   - having nausea and vomiting   - feeling light-headed or dizzy   - fainting   - sleep problems   - fatigue   - lack of energy.  breaking out in a cold sweat having nausea and vomiting feeling light-headed or dizzy fainting sleep problems fatigue lack of energy. Angina or a Heart Attack? Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina occurs in people who have coronary heart disease, usually when they're active. Angina symptoms can be very similar to heart attack symptoms. Angina pain usually lasts for only a few minutes and goes away with rest. If you think you may be having a heart attack, or if your angina pain does not go away as usual when you take your angina medication as directed, call 9-1-1 for help. You can begin to receive life saving treatment in the ambulance on the way to the emergency room.