Eating healthy foods helps us stay well. It's even more important for people with Alzheimers disease.  When a person with Alzheimer's lives with you --  -  Buy healthy foods such as vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products. Be sure to buy foods that the person likes and can eat.   - Buy food that is easy to prepare, such as pre-made salads and single food portions.   - Have someone else make meals if possible.   - Use a service such as Meals on Wheels, which will bring meals right to your home. For more information, check your local phone book, or contact the Meals on Wheels organization at 1 (888) 998-6325.  Buy healthy foods such as vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products. Be sure to buy foods that the person likes and can eat. Buy food that is easy to prepare, such as pre-made salads and single food portions. Have someone else make meals if possible. Use a service such as Meals on Wheels, which will bring meals right to your home. For more information, check your local phone book, or contact the Meals on Wheels organization at 1 (888) 998-6325. (Watch the video to learn about simplifying mealtimes for a person with Alzheimer's. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  When a person with early-stage Alzheimers lives alone -- - Follow the steps above  - Buy foods that the person doesn't need to cook.   - Call to remind him or her to eat. Follow the steps above Buy foods that the person doesn't need to cook. Call to remind him or her to eat. In the early stage of Alzheimers disease, the person's eating habits usually don't change. When changes do occur, living alone may not be safe anymore. Look for these signs to see if living alone is no longer safe for the person with Alzheimers. - The person forgets to eat.   - Food has burned because it was left on the stove.  - The oven isn't turned off. The person forgets to eat. Food has burned because it was left on the stove. The oven isn't turned off.