Many factors can lead to dry eye, including aging, medications, problems with eyelid function, disease, some types of surgery, environmental factors, and allergies. Many Older People Have Dry Eye Elderly people often have dryness of the eyes, but dry eye can occur at any age. Nearly five million Americans 50 years of age and older are estimated to have dry eye. Of these, more than three million are women and more than one and a half million are men. Tens of millions more have less severe symptoms. Dry eye is more common after menopause. Women who experience menopause prematurely are more likely to have eye surface damage from dry eye.  Medications Dry eye can be a side effect of some medications, including antihistamines, nasal decongestants, tranquilizers, certain blood pressure medicines, Parkinson's medications, and some anti-depressants. Women who are on hormone replacement therapy may experience dry eye symptoms. Eyelid Function Eyelid function can also be a factor in dry eye. Diseases that affect the eyelid, such as meibomian gland dysfunction, can also cause dry eye. Dry eye may also occur from exposure keratitis, in which the eyelids do not close properly during normal blinking or sleep. Skin diseases on or around the eyelids can result in dry eye. Infrequent blinking associated with staring at computer or video screens also may lead to dry eye symptoms. Systemic Diseases Certain diseases can cause dry eye. Chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva, or the lacrimal glands, can cause dry eye. Immune system disorders such as Sjgren's syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis also can cause dry eye. Sjgren's syndrome leads to inflammation and dryness of the mouth, eyes, and other mucous membranes. Thyroid disease, which can sometimes cause the eye to bulge out, can also lead to dry eye by increasing the surface area of the eye exposed to the environment. Surgeries Some types of surgery can lead to dry eye. For example, dry eye can develop after the refractive surgery known as LASIK. These symptoms generally last three to six months, but may last longer in some cases. Dry eye can also occur as a result of cosmetic surgery that widens the eyelids too much and increases the surface area of the eye exposed to the environment. Environment Environmental exposure to irritants such as chemical fumes and tobacco smoke, or drafts from air conditioning or heating can cause dry eye. Wearing contact lenses over a long period of time can lead to a loss of feeling in the cornea and this can cause dry eye. Allergies also can be associated with dry eye.