Self Care - Try over-the-counter remedies such as artificial tears, gels, gel inserts, and ointments. They offer temporary relief and can provide an important replacement of naturally produced tears.   - Avoid remedies containing preservatives if you need to apply them more than four times a day or preparations with chemicals that cause blood vessels to constrict.  - Wearing glasses or sunglasses that fit close to the face (wrap around shades) or that have side shields can help slow tear evaporation from the eye surfaces.   - Indoors, an air cleaner to filter dust and other particles can help your eyes feel more comfortable. A humidifier also may help by adding moisture to the air.  - Avoid dry conditions.  - Allow your eyes to rest when doing activities that require you to use your eyes for long periods of time. Use lubricating eye drops while performing these tasks. Try over-the-counter remedies such as artificial tears, gels, gel inserts, and ointments. They offer temporary relief and can provide an important replacement of naturally produced tears. Avoid remedies containing preservatives if you need to apply them more than four times a day or preparations with chemicals that cause blood vessels to constrict. Wearing glasses or sunglasses that fit close to the face (wrap around shades) or that have side shields can help slow tear evaporation from the eye surfaces. Indoors, an air cleaner to filter dust and other particles can help your eyes feel more comfortable. A humidifier also may help by adding moisture to the air. Avoid dry conditions. Allow your eyes to rest when doing activities that require you to use your eyes for long periods of time. Use lubricating eye drops while performing these tasks. If symptoms of dry eye persist, consult an eye care professional to get an accurate diagnosis of the condition and begin treatment to avoid permanent damage. Goal of Treatment Dry eye can be a temporary or ongoing condition, so treatments can be short term or may extend over long periods of time. The goal of treatment is to keep the eyes moist and relieve symptoms. (This short video discusses causes, symptoms, and treatments for dry eye.)  Talk to your doctor to rule out other conditions that can cause dry eye, such as Sjgren's syndrome. You may need to treat these conditions. If dry eye results from taking a medication, your doctor may recommend switching to a medication that does not cause dry eye as a side effect.  Types of Treatments - Medication. Cyclosporine, an anti-inflammatory medication, is a prescription eye drop available to treat certain kinds of dry eye. In people with certain kinds of dry eye, it may decrease damage to the cornea, increase basic tear production, and reduce symptoms of dry eye. It may take three to six months of twice-a-day dosages for the medication to work. Some patients with severe dry eye may need to use corticosteroid eye drops that decrease inflammation.  - Nutritional Supplements. In some patients with dry eye, supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (especially ones called DHA and EPA) may decrease symptoms of irritation. Talk with your eye care professional or your primary medical doctor about whether this is an option for you.  - Lenses. If dry eye is a result of wearing contact lens for too long, your eye care practitioner may recommend another type of lens or reducing the number of hours you wear your lenses. In the case of severe dry eye, your eye care professional may advise you not to wear contact lenses at all.  - Punctal plugs. Another option to increase the available tears on the eye surface is to plug the small circular openings at the inner corners of the eyelids where tears drain from the eye into the nose. Lacrimal plugs, also called punctal plugs, can be inserted painlessly by an eye care professional. These plugs are made of silicone or collagen. These plugs can be temporary or permanent.  - Punctal cautery.  In some cases, a simple surgery called punctal cautery is recommended to permanently close the drainage holes. The procedure works similarly to installing punctal plugs, but cannot be reversed. Medication. Cyclosporine, an anti-inflammatory medication, is a prescription eye drop available to treat certain kinds of dry eye. In people with certain kinds of dry eye, it may decrease damage to the cornea, increase basic tear production, and reduce symptoms of dry eye. It may take three to six months of twice-a-day dosages for the medication to work. Some patients with severe dry eye may need to use corticosteroid eye drops that decrease inflammation. Nutritional Supplements. In some patients with dry eye, supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (especially ones called DHA and EPA) may decrease symptoms of irritation. Talk with your eye care professional or your primary medical doctor about whether this is an option for you. Lenses. If dry eye is a result of wearing contact lens for too long, your eye care practitioner may recommend another type of lens or reducing the number of hours you wear your lenses. In the case of severe dry eye, your eye care professional may advise you not to wear contact lenses at all. Punctal plugs. Another option to increase the available tears on the eye surface is to plug the small circular openings at the inner corners of the eyelids where tears drain from the eye into the nose. Lacrimal plugs, also called punctal plugs, can be inserted painlessly by an eye care professional. These plugs are made of silicone or collagen. These plugs can be temporary or permanent. Punctal cautery.  In some cases, a simple surgery called punctal cautery is recommended to permanently close the drainage holes. The procedure works similarly to installing punctal plugs, but cannot be reversed.