Symptoms Symptoms of gum disease may include: - bad breath that won't go away   - red or swollen gums   - tender or bleeding gums  - painful chewing   - loose teeth   - sensitive teeth  - receding gums or longer appearing teeth  bad breath that won't go away red or swollen gums tender or bleeding gums painful chewing loose teeth sensitive teeth receding gums or longer appearing teeth If You Have Symptoms Any of these symptoms may be a sign of a serious problem that should be checked by a dentist. Sometimes gum disease has no clear symptoms. At your dental visit, the dentist or hygienist should - ask about your medical history to identify any conditions or risk factors (such as smoking) that may contribute to gum disease.   - examine your gums and note any signs of inflammation.   - use a tiny ruler called a 'probe' to check for and measure any pockets. In a healthy mouth, the depth of these pockets is usually between 1 and 3 millimeters. This test for pocket depth is usually painless.  ask about your medical history to identify any conditions or risk factors (such as smoking) that may contribute to gum disease. examine your gums and note any signs of inflammation. use a tiny ruler called a 'probe' to check for and measure any pockets. In a healthy mouth, the depth of these pockets is usually between 1 and 3 millimeters. This test for pocket depth is usually painless. The dentist or hygienist may also - take an x-ray to see whether there is any bone loss and to examine the condition of the teeth and supporting tissues.   - refer you to a periodontist. Periodontists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gum disease and may provide you with treatment options that are not offered by your dentist.  take an x-ray to see whether there is any bone loss and to examine the condition of the teeth and supporting tissues. refer you to a periodontist. Periodontists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gum disease and may provide you with treatment options that are not offered by your dentist.