Diagnosing Heart Failure There is not one specific test to diagnose heart failure. Because the symptoms are common for other conditions, your doctor will determine if you have heart failure by doing a detailed medical history, an examination, and several tests. The tests will identify whether you have any diseases or conditions that can cause heart failure. They will also rule out any other causes of your symptoms and determine the amount of damage to your heart. During a physical examination, you can expect your doctor to listen to your heart for abnormal sounds and listen to your lungs for a buildup of fluid. Your doctor will also look for swelling in your ankles, feet, legs, abdomen, and in the veins in your neck If your doctor determines that you have signs of heart failure, he or she may order several tests. Diagnostic Tests Tests that are given to determine heart failure include an electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG), a chest x-ray, and a BNP blood test. An EKG or ECG  -- electrocardiogram -- measures the rate and regularity of your heartbeat. This test can also show if you have had a heart attack and whether the walls of your heart have thickened. A chest X-ray takes a picture of your heart and lungs. It will show whether your heart is enlarged or your lungs have fluid in them, both signs of heart failure. A BNP blood test measures the level of a hormone in your blood called BNP -- brain natriuretic peptide -- that increases in heart failure. Once these initial tests have been performed, your doctor may decide to send you to a cardiologist, a specialist in the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease. A cardiologist will perform a physical exam and may order other tests. Other Tests Tests that can identify the cause of heart failure include an echocardiogram, a Holter monitor, and an exercise stress test. An echocardiogram is one of the most useful tests for diagnosing heart failure. This test uses sound waves to create a picture of the heart and shows how well the heart is filling with blood. Your doctor uses this test to determine whether any areas of your heart are damaged. A Holter monitor, which is a small box that is attached to patches placed on your chest. The monitor, which is worn for 24 hours, provides a continuous recording of heart rhythm during normal activity. An exercise stress test captures your EKG and blood pressure before, during, or after exercise to see how your heart responds to exercise. This test tells doctors how your heart responds to activity.